Hello, and
welcome to the complete intro to react V7.
I'm Brian Holt.
I'm really excited to be here talking
to you a little bit about React.
It's been a while since I've
been teaching about React.
So, this is my favorite course to teach.
And today we're gonna be talking about
how the React ecosystem has changed and
moved over the past year or so.
So, what I'm looking at in front
of you is the course website,
you can get to this course website
by going to bit.li/react V7.
Make sure that it's all lowercase.
React v7.
Now take it here you can also get there
through my GitHub on BT hold on GitHub.
You can see here I literally
have two computers, right?
This website is what I have
up on this computer so
that's what I'm reading through
I'm teaching this all to.
So, one you can read while I'm reading.
If you fall behind and go back and kind
of reread my points and my statements and
all that kind of things.
You can copy and paste some like
the longer pieces of code you don't
feel like editing yourself I will,
I know I will anyway.
Let me explain to you
a little bit how it works, so
you can see down here this is
all my course websites stuff.
One thing I did want to address
immediately out of the gate before we get
too much further into this, is this course
is teaching React version 17 not 18.
As of writing of this course,
version 18 is still in release candidate.
And so, it's not quite stable and
I'm trying to teach you something
that you can use today at your job.
You don't wanna use alpha or beta software
particularly if you're going out to
production for
your large scale application.
So, this still uses the most stable
version of React which is version 17.
To be honest with you, there will be some
changes between version 17 and version 18.
And we'll get into that in the course.
But all the concepts that you're learning
now are great for going forward.
You do not have to take version 6 or
version 5 version for this course.
This is just the seventh
revision of this course.
That's the most up to date
of all the different things.
If you wanna learn legacy
versions of this software,
you can go back and look at the complete
insure React version 6, 5, 4,,3, 2, 1.
They all use different, build processes
and routers and things like that.
But, if you're just here to learn React,
start here, you're in the right place.
And we can get started and get going.
So, let's talk about, why I made this
course and the style that I made it?
So, when I was learning
React 2014 I think is
the first React I shipped to production.
That's supposed to be eight years.
That's a long time to be writing React and
that's eternity in the front and
landscape where the shifting sands
are always moving around, right?
When I was learning React,
I felt like all the tutorials
were started on step 14, right?
It's like have you ever seen the the mean
drawn owl, is like the first line draw
circle and step two is draw
the rest of the owl, right?
That's kinda what I felt like
the React tutorials were like.
And so, I wanted to know
what steps 1 through 13 are.
One, I'm like an infrastructure
person kind of by trade, and so
I'd like the build tools and
the build processes.
And I guess I'm a glutton for
punishment when it comes
to those kind of things.
But, yeah, that's why I built this
tutorial in the way that I do.
We start with a script tag and a browser
and that's it, with no build process.
And then we kind of build up piece by
piece until eventually we arrive at
something where you feel you understand
your stack from top to bottom.
Yeah, and I just in general,
someone that's done infrastructure for
a long time.
If you are working with an abstraction
that you don't understand what it's doing,
I think you learn to resent
the abstraction, right?
So, for example,
who here has problems with Webpack?
Everyone has problems with Webpack.
Your hands not up cuz you haven't
worked with Webpack, right?
If you had to like manually and go and
do everything that Webpack does for you,
then be like Webpack is the best thing
that has ever happened to me, right?
And that's how I felt when Webpack came
out, because I was struggling with things
with like Browserify and
stuff like that back in the day.
And so, when Webpack came along and
did all the things I needed to do.
And that's kind of how I feel about React
and all these build tools that I'm about
to show you is that,
if you understand what it's doing for you,
then you be like gonna be like,
I love this thing, it's great.
Even though it's annoys the hell of me and
I have to like fight it,
it's better than fighting
what's underneath it.
So, who is this course for?
This course is for you, I hope [LAUGH].
To be more specific there,
you need to know JavaScript.
And HTML and Python CSS, you could
probably get away with like mental you
should know CSS most of you shouldn't.
But you don't have to know much CSS for
this class.
In other words, I wrote the CSS for you
and I am not saying that it is good, but
it is there.
It does work.
If you're not comfortable with JavaScript,
this course is gonna be pretty difficult.
Luckily front of masters has a couple
of really good intros to JavaScript.
He wants the boo camp, which I helped to
teach with Jim Cramer, which is awesome.
And the other one is the intro to web dev,
v2, we're about to do v3,
which did teach that one as well.
So, I will take those first if
you're not comfortable with that.
This class does share much of
the structure with V5 and V6.
It's the same kind of narrative,
it's working on the same app.
I was really happy with that one.
So, I kept going with it and
just kind of refined it.
If you wanna work with like
previous versions of things,
like maybe the old React router or
Reach router, the one previous to that.
You can look at the V5 and V6 and
you can kind of compare and
contrast how the React
ecosystem has grown over time.
Talk about what you needed
to set up on your laptop.
So, I'm gonna be doing this obviously on
Mac OS, I have tested this on Windows so
it does work.
And I don't keep Linux at home
that's just for the office.
I'm just going for
punishment at work not at home.
But everything,
you just follow the Mac OS instructions
everything should work perfectly well.
It gigs a ram on your
computer would be ideal.
You can definitely get away with four.
You can probably even get away with less,
you just have to wait a bit longer.
Please make sure you have
Node js already installed.
I'm not gonna be covering
any Node.js stuff.
But we have to use NPM and
some of those tools.
Parcell relies on it,
those kinds of things.
I'm gonna say you need at least 12,
I don't think you get away with 10.
I'll be using 16,
which is the LTS at the moment.
But 17 I actually tried this was 17.
I wrote most of course using node 17.
So, all that stuff should work.
Anyway, just be above 12,
probably be on 16.
That's my pitch for you.
There's setup instructions here if
you need instructions for that.
I will be using Visual Studio code.
I used to be on
the Visual Studio Code team, so
I'm very biased as to which editor
is far superior to the other ones.
Anyway, I will be showing you
some tips and tricks for VS code.
I imagined much of it will work and
other editors but
maybe try VS code cuz I will show you
some really cool things with that.
My font is Mona Lisa.
It's not free, but
if you see me how using coligatures,
which is combined symbols
that comes from Mona Lisa.
You can also use Dank mono,
is another cool font.
Or Microsoft's Cascadia code is free and
it has all these ligatures in it as well.
So, if you want to have a cool font,
I would suggest that one.
By the way, the reason why I'm covering
all these things is cuz if I don't cover
these things,
I get a billion questions about it later.
So, I'm just very upfront, this is
how I set up my coding environment.
I just use start plus
the default VS code theme,
I haven't found one that I like better.
So, I just keep using it.
When I do switch I use
Sarah Dresdner's Night Owl.
I just use the Mac OS built-in terminal,
but ITM2 is great.
All Windows I use the Windows Terminal.
And then I use
the vs.code-icons extension,
which gives all the cool icons
inside of my VS code editor.
I think that should cover everything
interesting about my coding In setup.
I usually keep it pretty vanilla
because I switch computers a lot and
I hate setting things up.
File issues, again,
everything on here is open source.
If you go to the complete intro to
react V7, this is the course website.
You can see all the lessons are in here.
This is all built with Next.js
was actually built using React.
Yeah, that's all in here
if you have issues or
pull requests please make them here.
I do get a lot of people that message
me on Twitter and LinkedIn and
such I'm terrible at responding
to messages just so you know.
So, it's not that I'm ignoring you
it's that I'm ignoring everybody.
Who am I?
My name is Brian.
Probably got that by now.
Maybe didn't, if not here I am.
I work at stripe now.
I am a product manager on developer
tools and developer experience.
So, I work exclusively on tools
that developers will use,
which means I end up writing
a lot of code on the day to day.
I own the stripe VS code extension, the
stripe CLI, the stripe server side SDK.
So, if you're writing like no JS with
the stripe SDK is that's the stuff
that I work on.
Just like other kinds of developer tools.
Before that I worked on VS code and
Azure at Microsoft.
And before that I was a JavaScript
developer for a decade.
So, I did that for a long time before
switched into pm developer things.
And I've worked at companies
like LinkedIn, Netflix, Reddit.
I feel like if you go back from
my intro to React courses,
you can kind of see me like
wearing different hoodies or
having different stickers on my laptop
from other companies that I worked.
It's like my resume.
I should just send people
that instead of my resume.
It's a great idea.
I wrote a lot of React at
basically all of these companies.
But I launched red its first React,
that's one of my claims to fame.
Actually, I think I
have the tweet up here.
So, this is from July 28 2014, from Salt
Lake City, which is where I used to live.
That we should read first
production code and React js.
And there's like a bunch
of funny people in here.
Like Matt said rescue this
guy runs React rally.
There's a bunch of people that are now
big names in the React community.
That's really cool I've
heard of this React thing.
So, that's my claim to fame.
I loved it.
Well, let me rephrase that.
At first I hated it, which is how it's
really good because you don't like it
at first and then you learn it's wait,
this is actually great.
And I'll show you why I
didn't like it at first.
And then when I kinda get over that
initial hump of this looks gross I was,
okay, this is actually amazing.
Cool.
So, I've been using it for yeah,
basically eight years now.
And I'm gonna show you why I
like React still to this day.
And I've worked in a bunch of other
frameworks like, I had an Angular js app.
Like Angular pre one app in
production until like two weeks ago.
And I wrote that at Reddit as well.
So, it was in production for
almost a decade.
So, I wrote a lot of angular as well
at LinkedIn I wrote a lot of Ember.
So, I have worked with a lot
of these frameworks and
this is still my go to
the other ones are great.
And then they have great
reasons to choose them.
And I'm definitely not
going to popoo them.
I'll just tell you the ones that I chose.
So, I live in Seattle now,
and quite like it.
I've come in Minneapolis enough
now that I feel like I live here.
When I'm not playing games or
working out, or any things like that,
to hang out with my wife and
I just had a kid and he's very cute.
And I have a cute dog and I like to
exercise and I play Over watch and
Dota really poorly.
And I drink a lot of scotch,
and IPAs, and coffee.
As you can see here, I think this is
cup of coffee number three for me.
That's me.
If you didn't know from my face
that's also me on the website.
Among the socials, please find me there.
If you start this repo then that strokes
my ego I'd be very happy about that.
But it also like makes it
like one of the rising ones,
which I means more people can find them.
Which I think is great.
So, let's talk about just one
kind of housekeeping item here.
There are two Repos for this class.
There's the website one, which one has one
already showed you if there's mistakes on
the course website,
go here to fix those, right?
And then I have here of
the example projects,
which you can see is complete
intro to React V7 project.
And you can see here,
it's folder by folder of step by
step of what we're about to do.
This is for both the intro and
intermediate.
You can see it goes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
And you'll see at the bottom of my course
notes, hey, we've hit this checkpoint and
it'll have the Repo in that state, right?
So, the first thing we're gonna do is,
we're gonna do this one, right?
And then, after that we'll do this one.
But each one of us like the standalone
project of that particular step
that we're in.
So, a couple of things here.
One, if you like fall behind just go
grab it off at the course website,
crown it and start from there.
There is no cheating in here, right?
This is all just about learning.
So, if you're succeeding in learning
then you're doing the right thing.
And if you're not succeeding in learning,
then you're not doing the right thing,
right?
So, you just gotta have to optimize for
that.
You'll have to learn MPM and style
every time you switch folders, right?
But I'll just say go crown
that Repo right now.
And then, if when you need it, it's there.
So, if there's mistake in the code here,
you'll have to come fix it here.
Or just what's easy to probably
just to leave an issue and
then I can go and
fix cuz I have to fix it multiple places.
>> Do you prefer Webpack or Parcel?
>> That is a interesting question,
do I prefer Parcel or Webpack?
For teaching hands down,
no question Parcel is like
God's gift to teachers, right?
Because we don't have to configure
anything and it just works.
If I'm gonna make a super large scale
production app that I'm gonna maintain for
five years
I might start with parcel until I needed
more configuration than it offers.
And at that point I'd probably
move to something like ES build.
Or Vito VT or
whatever you want to call it, or Webpack.
I guess it just depends on the nice thing
about Webpack is it has such a mature
ecosystem that.
If there's something you
need to do with Webpack,
I guarantee you there's
four plugins out there.
And hopefully at least two of them work.
I have a lot of respect for
all the build tools because it's
such a hard problem to solve.
And they all have their uses.
So, down here and you can click
Next to go to the next section.
Or you can also just click here and
go back to the beginning.
So, the one thing I'll point out for
the course website here,
I intentionally put up here.
This is the lesson that we're on, and
this is the section that we're on.
So, if you get lost and
you don't know where I am in the course,
you can just look up here.
And you can see I was on No Frills React,
Pure React.
So, that's up there.
So, you can make sure you can always
orient yourself to where I am in
the course.